in this video we're going to look at job
configuration in Jenkins you will learn
how to configure a run a job and get
familiar with core terminology such as
parameters job will trigger build and
possible actions workspace artifact etc
without any further ado let's look a job
configuration in Jenkins I created few
Jenkins jobs or projects for
illustration purposes I click on the one
named build up to get into the job then
I click on configure to show you how I
can figure this job the first section is
general this is where name description
and other details about the job or
project are set for example I named this
job build underscore up and gave it a
description note that the project name
is reflected in the URL used by Jenkins
to identify this job therefore I
recommend to avoid spaces a News
underscore or - the final URL will be
much friendlier notice also that
although the project name is build on
the school app in lowercase
there is a friendly name with space and
capitalized initials displayed in the
breadcrumb this is set by clicking on
advanced and setting the friendly name
in display name in this way you can have
a project name that displays well on the
URL but it is also informative when
displayed within Jenkins another useful
option is this job is parameterised I
take the box and this displays a
drop-down menu add parameter for example
you can add a string parameter and pass
it to the Jenkins job we will see an
example of passing a parameter to a
Jenkins job in video 2.4 to move to the
next configuration section we can scroll
down or use a tabbed view source code
management is where we configure access
to version control repositories by
default the Jenkins
LTS version allows to connect to get and
subversion repositories but other
version controls
systems can be used as well by
installing the relevant Jenkins plug-in
here I set up the repository for this
video course on github when the job is
executed
Jenkins pulls the code from github and
store it locally within this project in
a working directory or workspace the
next section is they'll trigger a bill
trigger is a criteria or a condition for
starting a build automatically for
example you can set up a bill to run
periodically by setting a schedule this
is based on Crone syntax but no worries
if you don't know it click on the
question mark and you will find some
useful examples on Chrome syntax for
example this syntax will run the job
every 15 minutes another option that we
will use later on in this video course
is to set the bill trigger to a github
hook so that as soon as there is a code
change on a github repository a Jenkins
job is triggered automatically we'll see
this in the next sections of this video
course build environment allows to set
up the environment before the build
starts for example we can delete the
workspace the working directory where
code builds and other temporary files
are stored before a build is executed in
order to have a clean environment we can
also inject in a secure manner a secret
file or a text and reference it in our
build a typical example is a password
again we'll see this later in the course
the build section is the core of the
Jenkins configuration and allows to
execute a build step for example running
a script here I'm configuring a shell
script that prints hello world to the
console output you can choose other
types of build scripts like a batch and
Gradle omean script and you can install
additional plugins to use your favorite
scripting language finally the post
build action allows to execute
additional tasks after the build script
has been executed typical examples are
publishing
report sending an email or archiving the
artifacts which are immutable files like
jar or zip files generated at the end of
the bill now I click on save to save the
current configuration and go back to the
project I click on build now to start
the build this build takes just few
seconds and you can see that the latest
build has been added to the build
history we can now click on the build
stay to icon to access the console
output showing all the operations
executed by the build and you can notice
the hello world message finally I go
back to project and show you workspace
which contains the content of the github
repository set up in the job
configuration I didn't create any file
or artifact with this build but if this
were the case it would be present inside
the workspace this is the end of the
demo for this video now let's recap with
some cool terminology we encountered in
this video the workspace is a working
directory where code bills and other
temporary files are stored during a bill
a bill trigger is a criteria or a
condition for triggering a build for
example time could change etc a build
step is a task executed during the build
process for example a shell or a maven
script a post build step is an
additional task executed at the end of
the build an artifact is an immutable
file generated at the end of the build
for example a jar or at zip file this is
the end of this video where we looked at
job configuration watch the next video
where you will create your first Jenkins
job